!title:Hiking in Puerto Rico
!submit-time:2009-01-02 17:11:20
!submit-ip:74.213.101.39
Hiking in Puerto Rico is no easy thing to research.  For one thing, until you've lived here a while, it's simply too darned hot to go out for very long.
But once you've acclimated to the tropics, hiking becomes a possibility -- and there are some truly nice places to hike.  (And since hardly anybody else here
hikes, you're not going to be crowded out.)

But there remains the problem that it's hard to find out just <i>where</i> you can hike!  As I visit these parks, I want to update the English pages with more specific and salient information about how to get there and what you can do there.  As always, the difficulty in Puerto Rican tourism (even for those of us who live here) is the scarcity of published information.

This is totally a work in progress, of course.  Here are the state parks I've actually visited and thus have some specific information on:

*toronegro"Bosque Estatal de Toro Negro/Toro Negro State Forest" - the grandaddy of all Puerto Rican state forests. (*http://www.ceducapr.com/toronegro.htm"Spanish-language DRNA page here")

*guanica"Bosque Estatal de Guánica" - the dry forest (a UN biodiversity preserve).  There's also a Spanish description with some nice pictures at *http://ponce.inter.edu/acad/cursos/ciencia/pages/guanica.htm"INTER Ponce".

*maricao"Bosque Estatal de Maricao" - up the hill from Sabana Grande (between Mayag&uuml;ez and Ponce).  (The *http://www.ceducapr.com/Maricao.htm"DRNA page" is here.)

And here are some (currently dead) links to the rest of the state parks that I think may have actual trails.  I'm keeping these links because it appears to be a billing problem that they may clear up.  I certainly hope so; the pages are quite good.

*http://www.ceducapr.com/pinones.htm"Bosque Estatal de Piñones" - up near San Juan.


*http://www.ceducapr.com/rioabajo.htm"Bosque Estatal de Rio Abajo"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/carite.htm"Bosque Estatal de Carite"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/Cambalache.htm"Bosque Estatal de Cambalache"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/guilarte.htm"Bosque Estatal de Guilarte"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/boqueron.htm"Bosque Estatal de Boqueron" - no actual hiking trail here; just a boardwalk kind of thing.  Pretty, though.

*http://www.ceducapr.com/Susua.htm"Bosque Estatal de Susua"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/vega.htm"Bosque Estatal de Vega"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/aguirre.htm"Bosque Estatal de Aguirre"

*http://www.ceducapr.com/ceiba.htm"Bosque Estatal de Ceiba" - I'm not sure if there are trails here; Fajardo is about as far from Ponce as you can get, so we don't really go up there ever.





